---
title: API Builder release notes - 7 December 2018
linkTitle: Jakarta - 7 December 2018
description: >-
  Release details about updating your API Builder application to use the new
  features, fixes, and new or updated components. Includes a known issues list.
weight: 200
date: 2018-12-07
Hide_readingtime: true
---

## Summary

This release includes:

* [Features](#features)

* [Fixes](#fixes)

* [Release Notes](#release-notes)

* [Updated Modules](#updated-modules)

* [Plugins](#updated-plugins)

* [Known Issues](#known-issues)

## Features

* [#5349:](#5349) Release authorizations in flows feature.

## Fixes

* [#5353:](#5353) Preserve authorization across reloads.

* [#5374:](#5374) Fix invalid deprecation URL for enableScopedConfig.

## Release Notes

* #5349: Introducing support of authorization in {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} flows. {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} now manages credentials and ensures tokens are kept valid. These credentials can be used directly by Swagger flow-nodes or retrieved using the Authorization flow-node. For more information, see: [{{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Credentials](/docs/developer_guide/credentials/).

* #5353: Previously, the system invalidated the authorized credentials on each system restart. Now, the system preserves the authorized credentials on system restart as long as the credential has not been updated within the corresponding configuration file.

* #5374: Previously, the `enableScopedConfig` deprecation warning had an invalid URL. Now, the deprecation warning has the correct URL.

## Updated modules

* [@axway/api-builder-runtime@4.5.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@axway/api-builder-runtime/v/4.5.0)

* [@axway/api-builder-admin@1.5.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@axway/api-builder-admin/v/1.5.0)

* [@axway/api-builder@4.4.2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@axway/api-builder/v/4.4.2)

## Updated plugins

* [@axway/api-builder-plugin-fn-swagger@2.0.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@axway/api-builder-plugin-fn-swagger/v/2.0.0)

## Known Issues

* #3825: Filtering the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Console administrator access using IPv6 addresses may cause ENOTFOUND errors.

* #3867: When attempting to create and save a flow for an imported Swagger endpoint that contains a path or paths defined by references the save will fail.

* #3979: Attempting to delete an endpoint in the UI that was created as a result of dereferencing a JSON `$ref` will yield a 404 error. {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} will fail to locate the method since it only exists when the whole Swagger document is dereferenced. An example of a Swagger document using `$ref`:

    ```
    {
      "swagger": "2.0",
      "paths" {
        "x-path": {
          "get": {}
        },
        "/find": {
          "$ref": "#/paths/x-path"
        },
        "/search": {
          "$ref": "#/paths/x-path"
        }

      }
    }
    ```

* #4528: Initializing new project with `api-builder init 1234` where `1234` is any number, will throw an ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE error rather than an "invalid npm package name".

* #4595: When using a `distinct` API backed by the Memory connector and passing a `field` which does not exist on the model, the first record is returned instead of an error.

* #4735: Invoking Upsert will fail for all data connectors when creating a composite model from an existing model and renaming one of the fields.

* #4749: A query on a `distinct` API created from the Mongo plugin (`@axway/api-builder-plugin-dc-mongo`) doesn't honor the value of the `order` parameter.

* #4750: The Upsert or FindAndModify methods are not present in the APIs generated from Mongo or MySQL connector based models.

* #4751: The FindAndModify method from APIs created using the Mongo plugin (`@axway/api-builder-plugin-dc-mongo`) responds with a 404 error rather than creating a new entry when the `upsert` parameter is `true`.

* #4752: The format of a distinct query's response depends on the type of connector.

* #4759: Calling Update or FindAndModify on a model that uses the composite connector and contains the required fields may fail and cause the server to terminate.

* #4795: The MongoDB plugin `@axway/api-builder-plugin-dc-mongo` does not correctly support primary keys that are not object identifiers. The MongoDB specification allows for primary keys of other types. As a result, trying to use the plugin will result in errors:

    ```
    { "message": "Invalid Value for Find By ID: "YOUR_STRING_PK_NAME", "success": false, "request-id": "c118f187-2090-4a68-b939-37367ac55b80" }
    ```

* #4813: If the endpoint Swagger file in the `/endpoints` folder contains special characters in its name, for example `[test].json`, the endpoint is not rendered correctly in the UI.

* #4856: Passing in an invalid column name as a parameter to certain APIs generated from data connectors will result in an exception being thrown rather than executing their callback with an error. A similar error may occur when using model flow-nodes, resulting in an error which cannot be handled by the flow.

* #4859: When endpoints are generated from a model, the endpoint descriptions do not use the correct plurals defined by the model.

* #4865: The Swagger flow-node plugin strips characters from valid object definition names which can result in schema ID collisions.

* #4865: The Swagger flow-node plugin does not handle valid object definition names with `~` or `/` in their name and can result in an invalid schema references in swagger flow-nodes.

* #4951: When endpoint or flow files with URL encoded characters in the filename are present in a project, unexpected things may occur. For example, the wrong flow or endpoint could be modified. Using files with these types of names is not recommended.

* #4961: Having the `%` symbol in various file names can cause problems in the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Console and with direct linking. It is therefore advisable to avoid using `%` in API, Endpoint, Flow, Model, and Configuration file names. This is a result of an issue in react-router/history. [https://github.com/ReactTraining/history/issues/505](https://github.com/ReactTraining/history/issues/505)

* #4966: {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} will generate invalid Swagger for programmatic API in `./apis` that bind to a path other than the `apiPrefix` defined in the configuration. These API must be bound to the same root path as is defined by `apiPrefix`.
