---
title: API Builder release notes - 29 June 2018
linkTitle: 4.0.0  29 june 2018 - 29 June 2018
description: >-
  Release details about updating your API Builder application to use the new
  features, fixes, and new or updated components. Includes a known issues list.
weight: 200
date: 2018-06-29
Hide_readingtime: true
---

## Summary

{{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} V4.0 enables customers to install and run {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} in containerized environments. Previously, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} could only be installed in a cloud environment. For information on installing and getting started with {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} V4.0, refer to the [Getting Started With {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}}](/docs/getting_started_with_api_builder/). The {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} 4.0.0 release includes the following changes and new features to implement the ability to install {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} on-premise. The release also includes breaking changes, fixed issues, known issues, and security vulnerabilities.

This release includes:

* [Upgrade](#Upgrade)

* [Breaking Changes](#BreakingChanges)

* [Features](#Features)

* [Fixes](#Fixes)

* [Release Notes](#ReleaseNotes)

* [Known Issues](#KnownIssues)

* [Security Vulnerabilities](#SecurityVulnerabilities)

## Upgrade

For more detailed instructors on how to migrate to {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} 4.0.0, please follow the [{{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} v3 to v4 Upgrade Guide](/docs/v3_to_v4_upgrade_guide/).

## Breaking Changes

* Node Handlers from {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} v3 are no longer compatible with {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} v4. Node Handlers are now referred to as Flow-Nodes.

* {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} no longer loads Node Handlers from the ./nodehandlers directory.

* Existing Node Handlers are renamed and installed as Flow-Node plugins. More information can be found [here](/docs/developer_guide/flows/flow-nodes/).

* The Admin UI has been removed from the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} runtime and should be installed as an explicit development dependency: `npm install --save-dev @axway/api-builder-admin@^1.0.0`

* The Appc CLI is no longer used to initialize, run or deploy {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} v4 services. @axway/api-builder is the new CLI which should be used to create new projects. `appc run` is no longer required, replaced with directly starting your service with `node app.js`. `npm install` is now explicitly required before {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} can start in order to pull the required dependencies from NPM.

* The minimum required version of NodeJS is now 8.9.

* The prefix of Model Flow-Node IDs has changed from nodehandler://arrow-flow-invoke to nodehandler://api-builder-flow-invoke.

* Previously, without logLevel defined in the configuration, the default level would be 'trace', now it is 'none'. New projects are generated with logLevel defined as 'debug'.

* Previously, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} used different API keys based on the environment in which the service was running. These were accessible in default.js as `apikey_development`, `apikey_production` and potentially `apikey_preproduction`. Now, a single value `apikey` is used instead. If the value still needs to be changed per-environment this value should be configured using an [environment variable](/docs/how_to/environmentalization/) instead.

* Previously, a number of appc_ prefixed variables were available in {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Web, used for accessing environment and platform-specific information such as the environment and host. Now, these variables have been removed and should be accessed in an alternative way.

* The /arrowPing.json endpoint has been renamed to /apibuilderPing.json. (Note that this has been re-added in the [Barcelona](/docs/release_notes/standalone_-_27_september_2019/) release).

* Previously, configuring the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} port by setting it to 0 would let the service start on any available port. Now, the feature has been removed and the configured port must be valid and available.

* Previously, in config, baseurl could include the port as well as the hostname. Now, it is more strict and should not include the port.

* **RDPP-4075:** Previously, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} loaded Service Connectors from the ./serviceconnectors directory. Now, they are no longer supported.

* **RDPP-4390**: Previously, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} loaded Data Connectors from the ./`connectors` folder of your project or the ./`node_modules/connectors` folder. Now, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} loads Connectors as {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} plugins which should be installed as npm package dependencies and accessible from `./node_modules`.

* **RDPP-4390**: Data connectors from {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} v3 are no longer compatible with {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} v4. The Appc CLI is no longer used to install connectors. For a list of available Data Connectors in {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} v4 and how to use them, refer to [{{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Connectors](/docs/developer_guide/connectors/).

* **RDPP-4225**: Previously, it was possible to specify environment variables from the operating system environment and apply them to the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} runtime (for example, `ARROW_PORT`). Now, it is no longer possible to automatically use `ARROW_*` environment properties. Instead, the configurable environment properties need to be explicitly included in the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}}'s configuration files (for example, `conf/default.js`), and reference the environment variable by name (for example, `process.env.APP_PORT`).

* **RDPP-4225**: Previously, it was possible to have multiple sets of configuration files, for example, "development", "production", and so forth. Now, only two sets of configuration files are recognized: "default" and "local" (for example, `default.js`, `foo.default.js`,`local.js`, and `foo.local.js`), where the local config files are ignored by Git and NPM.

* **RDPP-4348**: Previously, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} would write aggregated transactional logs to `./logs`. Now, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} logs everything to the console and as a result, the logging in `conf/default.js` is no longer used. The existing logging configuration will have no effect on the application and can be removed safely.

* **RDPP-4390**: Previously, Data Connector configuration would use the connector name as the key; for example, `appc.mysql`, and then list specific configuration properties for the connector, including an optional alias. Now, the Data Connector configuration will use the user-configurable alias as a key; for example, mysql. The property `connector` is now required and must be set to the package name of the Data Connector being used.

    ```
    mysql: {
      connector: '@axway/api-builder-plugin-dc-mysql',
      user: 'root',
      password: 'root'
    }
    ```

* **RDPP-4577**: Previously, the Swagger generated for model CRUD APIs accepted additional properties in the request. This could lead to errors and unexpected behavior. Now, the APIs do not accept additional properties and they precisely define their return type in the `id` field.

* **RDPP-4781**: Previously, the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} runtime was in a module called `arrow` and was referred to as Arrow. Now, the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} runtime is in a module called `@axway/api-builder-runtime` and is referred to as APIBuilder.

* **RDPP-4781**: Previously, the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} React engine was in a module named `arrow-react-engine`. Now, the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} React engine is in a module called `@axway/api-builder-react-engine`.

* **RDPP-4152**: Previously, the methods on the model flow-nodes outputted `Arrow.Model` objects to the Flow context. Interacting with these in subsequent flow-nodes required a knowledge of the internal workings of the Model object. Now, the model flow-nodes output plain data objects containing the fields and values from the model method. This will only cause issues for flows that were expecting the Model object rather than a data object.

* **RDPP-4368**: Previously, the `distinct` method on flow-nodes for connectors had parameters for `sel` and `unsel` that were ignored. Now, these parameters are removed from the model flow-node.

* **RDPP-4550**: Previously, endpoints with query parameters accepted `page` and `per_page` as well as `skip` and `limit`. The problem is that it wasn't clear how to effectively use these. To exacerbate the issue, supplying both sets of parameters would yield unexpected result ranges. Now, `page` and `per_page` parameters have been removed since their functionality is a subset of what can be provided by the `skip` and `limit` parameters. In the backend, `page` and `per_page` are computed via `skip` and `limit` so connectors that rely on them should continue to function.

* **RDPP-4602**: Previously, model fields with default values would get set in the model schema without validation or interpretation. Now, the default values are validated to ensure that they are cast as the correct type.

* **RDPP-4712**: Previously, models would auto-generated API with optional body parameters for the **Create**, **Upsert**, **Update**, and **Find and Modify** methods. Now, body parameters are required.

* **RDPP-4732**: Previously, there was a `serialization.exposePrimaryKeyAsId` configuration option that was intended to force the primary key of a model to always be called `id`. Now, this configuration option has been removed and the model primary key field will always be exposed using its actual column name.

## Features

* **RDPP-1243**: Previously, flows had no inputs and would receive implicit runtime parameters `$.params`, `$.request`, `$.config`, and `$.env` for use at runtime. Now, those parameters are explicitly part of the flow definition.

* **RDPP-1243**: Previously, "Generate endpoints" from a model would generate Flows that had implicit `$.params`, `$.request`, `$.config`, and `$.env` inputs for use at runtime. Now, the generated Flows only use the explicit API endpoint parameters needed to execute the model function, e.g. `$.limit` and `$.where.`

* **RDPP-4045**: Previously, the flow editor UI had a **Save** button that would save the current flow being edited and then exit to the list of API methods. Now, the flow editor UI has an **Apply** button that allows the flow to be saved, but stays in the flow editor and does not exit. The **Cancel** button has also been renamed to **Close**. If the flow has no changes, then **Close** will just exit. If the flow has changed, then **Close** will prompt to save or discard changes before exiting.

* **RDPP-4346**: Previously, projects created with the Axway Flow SDK had to synchronously export their flow-node specifications which prevented the use of asynchronous APIs, such as network calls or complex parsers, when generating the flow-node specifications. Now, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} allows the flow-node projects to export a Promise which will resolve with the flow-node specification, allowing for asynchronous loading of the flow-node specifications. Now, this is the default behavior in all new flow-node projects.

* **RDPP-4392**: Previously, the `appc.composite` Connector was installed separately into your application. Now, the Connector has been renamed to `composite` and is now included as part of {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} with no need to install it separately.

* **RDPP-4524**: Previously, when a Flow was invoked it would log the step-by-step execution with only the Flow-Node's ID which was not very user-friendly. Now, Flow logging will include the user-provided Flow-Node name alongside the ID. For example, `Format String (mustache.1)`.

## Fixes

* **RDPP-4350**: Previously, importing API endpoints into {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} would incorrectly apply a `Content-Type` to `GET` methods. Now, imported endpoints do not apply `Content-Type` to `GET` methods.

* **RDPP-4350**: Previously, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} would apply `consumes`, `produces`, `tags`, `schemes`, and `security` properties on the service's Swagger document. This would unintentionally mean that any endpoints without these properties defined per-path, would take these global values instead of their intended value. Now, any endpoints which are imported with any of these properties will only have them applied to that endpoint's methods, and {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} will not apply any of these properties globally which could change the meaning of the resulting Swagger document.

* **RDPP-4355**: Previously, HTTP method verbs in the API Documentation page for endpoints were lower-case. Now, they are correctly displayed in upper-case.

* **RDPP-4363**: Previously, importing a Swagger document with an empty title would save the file to `endpoints/*.json`. This is because the file name is derived from the title. Also, if a file already existed with the desired name, an error would be thrown. Now, the imported file name or URL basename will be used if the Swagger title is blank. Additionally, if the desired filename already exists, then the imported filename will have an integer appended to it to ensure uniqueness.

* **RDPP-4368**: Previously, the model generated API for distinct had options for `sel` and `unsel` that were ignored. Now, these options are not added to the API.

* **RDPP-4531**: Previously, query parameters in the Swagger generated from models were missing some maximum, minimum, and default properties. These are used to set parameter defaults and to enforce correct user input. For example, the `page` query parameter should be set to a minimum value of 1. Now, these values are part of the generated query parameters.

* **RDPP-4559**: Previously, when running an {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} project that began with the character "u" on Microsoft Windows, the service would fail to start with a `SyntaxError: Invalid Unicode escape sequence`. Now, these projects will start correctly.

* **RDPP-4578**: Previously, after importing a Swagger API, when trying to invoke an API method that consumes a body, where the `consumes` parameter was not defined in the original Swagger document (either on the method, or globally), {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} would return "Request validation failed: Parameter (body) failed schema validation". Now, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} applies a default `consumes` parameter of `application/json`. The Swagger 2.0 specification does not explicitly handle this condition but their own tooling applies `application/json` and it is a reasonable assumption that the method can default to `application/json` when the body must validate against a JSON schema.

* **RDPP-4732**: Previously, the primary keys on models had to be named `id`. Now, {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} supports primary key columns with names other than `id`.

## Known Issues

* **RDPP-3825**: Filtering the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Console administrator access using IPv6 addresses may cause ENOTFOUND errors.

* **RDPP-3867**: When attempting to create and save a flow for an imported Swagger endpoint that contains a path or paths defined by references the save will fail.

* **RDPP-3960**: The {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Console does not recognize a required consumes value for form parameters if it is appended and the endpoint load will fail. For example:

    ```
    "consumes": [
    "multipart/form-data; charset=utf-8"
    ],
    ```

    The appended character set (`charset=utf-8`) will cause the endpoint load to fail.

* **RDPP-3979**: When deleting endpoints which contain references within paths, a Page Not Found (404) error may be displayed in the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Console. For example, a Swagger document with references within paths may look similar to this:

    ```
    {
      "swagger": "2.0",
      "paths" {
        "x-path": {
          "get": {}
        },
        "/find": {
          "$ref": "#/paths/x-path"
        },
        "/search": {
          "$ref": "#/paths/x-path"
        }

      }
    }
    ```

    The {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Console will fail to find GET /find since it is inside a `$ref`. If the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Console has modified the referenced `$ref`, it could cause unexpected behavior for other paths referencing #/paths/x-path such as /search - deleting GET /find could unexpectedly delete GET /search too.

* **RDPP-4050**: When rendering the flow editor, the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Console may fail to render the Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) icons correctly in the Firefox browser. The render failure may result in blank icons being displayed in the tool panel and in the flow diagram. This is due to a long-standing bug in Firefox that fails to scale SVG graphics correctly. To fix, edit the SVG icon and add height and width. For example: `<svg ... height="80" width="80" /`\>

* **RDPP-4280**: Editing large object parameters on the API Orchestration page in the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} Console may cause multiple, confusing flow-node configuration panel scrollbars to appear.

* **RDPP-4445**: If a Swagger definition uses the `allOf` parameter, the body generated in the method test window is incorrect.

* **RDPP-4532**: Given a data connector that generates models from a database, and is configured to auto-generate the API for those models (`modelAutogen` is set to `true`), and there exists a table with a primary key that is not an auto-incremented number and not named "`id`" (for example, is a PK on `username`), then the API generated will not properly handle the methods for **Upsert** or **Update**. In the UI, **Upsert** will render an example body with the non-id PK (for example, `username`) and `id` and will also fail 500 with various error messages depending on content of the body, "You must provide a Model id and data Object, that will be persisted", required body parameter: username missing", "You must provide a Model id and data Object, that will be persisted". **Update** will fail with 500 error "invalid field: id". Given a table `"geozip`", `postalCode` (PK string), `lat` (string), `lng` (string), the generated API methods disallows **Create** or **Upsert**.

* **RDPP-4716**: Given a MySQL data connector that generates models from a database, and is configured to auto-generate the API for those models (`modelAutogen` is set to `true`), and there exists a table with no primary key, then the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} will not be able to handle the following methods: **Update**, **Delete**, **Find By ID**, **Find and Modify**, and **Upsert**.

* **RDPP-4724**: Given an Oracle data connector that generates models from a database, and is configured to auto-generate the API for those models (`modelAutogen` is set to `true`), and there exists a table with no primary key, then the {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} will not be able to handle the following methods: **Update**, **Delete**, **Find By ID**, **Find and Modify**, and **Upsert**.

* **RDPP-4727**: When executing a count query on a composite model that is being sourced from an Oracle DB Model the reported result count will never exceed 10 irrespective of how many actual rows there are.

* **RDPP-4736**: Given a Swagger with an extension, for example, on the [paths object](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/2.0.md#paths-object), the Swagger flow-node plugin can fail to load the Swagger file, resulting in an error: "Error loading plugin: @axway/api-builder-plugin-fn-swagger. Cannot convert undefined or null to object."

* **RDPP-4748**: The Swagger document describes the application's configured **scheme**, **host**, and **port**; however, the application's **scheme**, **host**, and **port** are not editable via the application's configuration.

* **RDPP-4752**: The format of a distinct query's response depends on the type of the connector.

* **RDPP-4759**: Calling **Update** or **Find and Modify** on a Model that uses the composite connector and contains the required fields may fail and cause the server to terminate.

* **RDPP-4795**: The Mongo database connector does not work well with public keys (PKs) that are not ObjectID.

* **RDPP-4813**: If the endpoint Swagger file in the **`/endpoints`** directory contains special characters in its name, for example `[test].json`, the endpoint is not rendered correctly in the UI.

## Security Vulnerabilities

* **RDPP-4810**: JSONSelect

    * **Vulnerability**: JSONSelect@0.4.0 is used indirectly by the `api-builder-runtime`. JSON path is used in the flow engine and flow editor to query object value(s) at runtime. The issue identified by the CVE is with a jQuery artifact that is vulnerable to XSS that is bundled with JSONSelect. jQuery version 1.6.1 has the following relevant CVEs reported against it:

        * [CVE-2011-4969](http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2011-4969) - XSS with location.hash

        * [CVE-2012-6708](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2012-6708) - Selector interpreted as HTML

        * [CVE-2015-9251](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2015-9251) - 3rd party CORS request may execute

    * **Analysis**: The JSONSelect npm package includes in its distribution, a copy of jQuery that is used for unit-test and is not used by JSONSelect itself, and as a result, it is not a risk for {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}}.

* **RDPP-4811**: Bootstrap 20184

    * **Vulnerability**: {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} UI uses react-bootstrap which has a dependency on Bootstrap v3.3.7, and it is 3.3.7 that contains the vulnerability. At the time of writing this ticket, Bootstrap did not publish a 3.x version after 3.3.7, so no fix was ever released. The Bootstrap library is now at 4.x. However, the react-bootstrap library that {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} uses is actively working on a version compatible with Bootstrap v4.x. The following issue is logged against Bootstrap v3.3.7:

        * [20184](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/issues/20184) - XSS in data-target attribute

    * **Analysis**: The vulnerability and risk are documented in [20184](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/issues/20184). The {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} UI only runs on the developer machine and is locked to localhost by default. The {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} UI **will not be installed in production**. Furthermore, the UI bundled with {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} does not use data-target attributes. The risk to {{% variables/apibuilder_prod_name %}} is low.

## Notable Connector Fixes

### MySQL

* **RDPP-4368**: Previously, calling `query` on the MySQL connector with `sel` containing an unknown field would have indeterminate results and would be potentially dangerous for SQL injection attacks. Now, unknown fields are filtered out and will return an error.

* **RDPP-4368**: Previously, calling `query` on the MySQL connector with `order` containing unknown columns would have indeterminate results and was open to SQL injection attacks. Now, using `order` with an unknown column will return an error.

* **RDPP-4368**: Previously, calling `distinct` on the MySQL connector with an unknown field would have indeterminate results and would be potentially dangerous for SQL injection attacks. Now, an unknown field will return an error.

* **RDPP-4368**: Previously, calling `query`, `distinct`, `count`, or `findAll` on the MySQL connector with a where option that contained unknown columns would have indeterminate results and was open to SQL injection attacks. Now, using the where option with an unknown column will return an error.

* **RDPP-4368**: Previously, calling `distinct` or `findAll` on the MySQL connector would not honor options for `order`, `skip`, or `limit`. Now, these options are honored.

* **RDPP-4368**: Previously, calling `upsert` on the MySQL connector with an un-escaped ID value would have indeterminate results and would be potentially dangerous for SQL injection attacks. Now, ID is passed as a placeholder and escaped.

* **RDPP-4548**: Previously, the MySQL connector did not support the decimal type. Now, support has been added for decimal table fields and converts them to a number in the corresponding JavaScript model.

### Mongo

* **RDPP-4700**: Previously, the `distinct` method for Mongo database collections did not honor `skip`, `limit`, or `order` query parameters. Now, the `distinct` method for Mongo database collections honors `skip`, `limit`, or `order` query parameters.
